# CRUD Quiz

Use the solution to this afternoon's Property Tracker lab to answer the following questions. Please write your answers under each question, push the file to GitHub, and submit in the usual way.

## MVP Questions

In our Property Tracker application:

Q1. Where are we instantiating instances of the `Property` class?

  In the console.rb file, for example:
```
property1 = Property.new({
  'address' => '89 Bouverie Road, WESTON UNDER WETHERLEY, CV33 3XG',
  'value' => 120000,
  'bedrooms' => 3,
  'build' => 'detached'
  })
```

Q2. Where are we defining the SQL that enables us to save the ruby `Property` object into the database?

  In the property.rb file, within the function 'def save':
```
    sql = "INSERT INTO properties
    (
      address,
      value,
      bedrooms,
      build
    )
    VALUES
    (
      $1,$2,$3,$4
    )
    RETURNING id"
```

Q3. In `console.rb`, which lines modify the database?

  In console.rb there are 3 methods in console.rb that modify the database. delete, save and delete_all. E.g.:
```
Property.delete_all()
property1.save()
property1.delete()
```

Q4. Why do we not define the id of a `Property` object at the point we instantiate it (‘new it up’)?

  We do not define the id of a `Property` object at the instantiation because we have asked the database to create an id for each value when we create the database table so that the id value is unique.

Q5. Where and how do we assign the id (that is generated by the database) to the ruby `Property` object?

  The id is assigned to the ruby `Property` object in the code below. The code asks the database to return the id of each item before assigning the id as a value on the `@id = ` code line.
```
RETURNING id"
    values = [@address, @value, @bedrooms, @build]
    db.prepare("save", sql)
    @id = db.exec_prepared("save", values)[0]["id"].to_i
```
Q6. Why do we put a guard (an `if` clause) on the `@id` attribute in the constructor?

  The guard stops us from having to create an id in instances of properties and ensures that the id that the database creates is maintained.

Q7. Why are some of the CRUD actions represented by instance methods, and others by class methods?

  Some of the actions will need all of the information within the class, such as `Property.find`, whereas some actions will only require the instance methods to run, such as `UPDATE`.

Q8. What type of data structure is returned by calls to `db.exec_prepared()`? In the `save` method, how do we access the id from the returned data structure?

  The data structure is array like.

  The id is accessed by locating the index number of the 'array' and converting to a string. E.g. ``` [0]["id"].to_i ```

Q9. Why do we use prepared statements when performing database operations?

  Prepared statements protect the database by not allowing user input to alter the database. Avoids SQL injection.

## Extension Questions

Look at the `find_by_id` and `find_by_address` methods in the `Property` class.

Q10. What do they take in as their arguments?

  They take in the `id` and the `address` as their arguments.


Q11. What are their return values?

  The methods will return the instance of the property that is searched for. All of the property data will be returned within a hash. It will only return 1 property per search.
